# monitorization
This repository is an exploritory data analysis looking into computer monitor features and pricing for the purpose of purchasing a new monitor. It is currently a work in progress. I will be scraping data from the web and compiling it into a Pandas DataFrame. Once this data is inside a dataframe, I will have to clean and transform the columns into a useable format for data analysis. Depending on the features that I am able to collect, I plan to run regression analysis across several features to try to determine the price value of different features, as well as build a linear regression model for price prediction and then use this regression line to help identify models that have the best value for the price. 

The [Monitorization](https://github.com/nathaniel-j/monitorization/blob/main/monitorization.ipynb) notebook has the information and code behind how I sourced and cleaned the data I used for this project. I performed a webscrape using the python beautiful soup module from the LG website. I discuss the options for my data source and why I chose to use manufacturer data as opposed to a third party with more monitors. For this portion I mostly used functional programming with minimal in-function assignments to try to limit scaled errors, make the code easy to follow, and make the results reproducible. For the data cleaning section I used more ad-hoc procedural programming methods. This was largely due to how messy the resultant data was, with mutiple redundant columns being created from spelling and formating errors, it would have been exhaustingly time consuming to go back through and reformat all my code each time I found a new redundancy. For this portion I structured my data as a pandas dataframe with monitor features as columns and each row representing a different monitor. Pandas allows for easy exploration, manipulation, and transformation of data, and in this case I was able to take a very messy set with over 130 columns and reduce it to a clean and meaningful 40 columns. I saved the dataframe as a CSV file for use in the second notebook where I analyze the data.

The [Monitor Analysis](https://github.com/nathaniel-j/monitorization/blob/main/monitor_analysis.ipynb) notebook contains my analysis and code for determining which monitor is right for me. In here I will be using statistical methods to understand how the data I have acquired correlates to the things that I am looking for in a monitor, and then comparing the monitors to see which one best aligns with my needs. This notebook is not completed yet, but I have started with a cross-value overview that eliminated one outlier monitor, and started compiling questions for the next steps of analysis. 
